#A brief explication of the other fifty Psalmes, from Ps. 50 to Ps. 100 by David Dickson ...#

##Dickson, David, 1583?-1663.##
A brief explication of the other fifty Psalmes, from Ps. 50 to Ps. 100 by David Dickson ...
Dickson, David, 1583?-1663.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A35/A35945.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/A35/A35945.epub) • 
[Page images (Historical Texts)](https://data.historicaltexts.jisc.ac.uk/view?pubId=eebo-12730387e&pageId=eebo-12730387e-66460-1)

**Availability**

This keyboarded and encoded edition of the
	       work described above is co-owned by the institutions
	       providing financial support to the Early English Books
	       Online Text Creation Partnership. This Phase I text is
	       available for reuse, according to the terms of Creative
	       Commons 0 1.0 Universal. The text can be copied,
	       modified, distributed and performed, even for
	       commercial purposes, all without asking permission.

**Major revisions**

1. __2003-12__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2004-01__ __Apex CoVantage__ *Keyed and coded from ProQuest page images*
1. __2004-02__ __John Latta__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2004-02__ __John Latta__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2004-04__ __pfs__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####

1. TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE The EARL of EGLINGTON, Mercy and Peace through Iesus Christ.

1. The Epistle to the READER.
The mistakes in the printing whi•h have escaped the Prsse in the former piece, and may possi•…ly als
#####Body#####

1. A BRIEF EXPOSITION Upon the other fifty Psalmes.

    _ PSAL. LI. To the chief Musician. A Psalme of David, when Natha•…▪ the Prophet came unto him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba.
Ver. 1. HAve mercy upon me, O God, according t•… thy loving kindnesse: according unto the multitude Ver. 3. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.4. Against thee, thee onelVer. 7. Purge me with bysope, and I shall be clean: wash me and I shall be whiter then snow.8. Make Ver. 9. Hide thy face from my sint, and blo out all mine iniquities.10. Create in me a clean heart, Ver. 14. Deliver me from blood-guiltinesse, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sinVer. 15. O Lord open thou my lips, and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.16. For thou desirest noVer. 18. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Sion, build thou the walls of Ierusalem.19. Then shalt th
    _ PSAL. LII. To the chief Musician, Maschil. A Psalme of David: when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul▪ and said unto him, David is come to the house of Abimclech.
Ver. 1. Why boast est thou thy selfe in mischief, O mighty man? the goodnesse of God endureth continVer. 2. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs: like a sharp r•…sour working deceitfully.3. Thou lovest evil 5. God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelVer. 6. The righteous also shall see and feare, and shall laugh at him.7. Lo, this is the man that mVer. 8. But I am like a green Olive-tree in the house of God, I trust in the mercy of God for ever aVer. 9. I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy Name, for it 
    _ PSAL. LIII. To the chief Musician up•…n Mahalath Maschil. A Psalme of David.
Ver. 1. THe foole hath said in his heart, There is no God; corrupt are they, and have done abominablVer. 4. Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge▪who eat up my people as they eate bread; they haveVer. 5. There were they in great feare, where〈◊〉 feare was; for God hath scattered the bones of him Ver. 6. O that the salvation of Israel were come out of Sion! when God bringeth back the captivity o
    _ PSAL. LIV. To the chief Musician on Neginoth Maschil. A Psalme of David, when the Ziphims came and said to Saul, Doth not David hide himself with us?
Ver. 1. SAve me, O God, by thy Name, and judge me by thy strength.2. Heare my Prayer, O God, give eaVer. 3. For strangers are risen up against me; and oppressours seek after my soule, they have not seVer. 4. Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.5. He shall reward eviVer. 6. I will freely sacrifice unto thee, I 〈◊〉 praise thy Name (O LORD) for it is good
7. For he h
    _ PSAL. I. V. To the chief Musician on Neginoth, Maschil. A Psalme of David.
Ver. 1. GIve eare to my prayer, O God, and hide not thy self from my supplication.2. Attend unto me,Ver. 4. My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrours of death are fallen upon me.5. FearfulneVer. 6. And I said, O that I had wings like a Dove; for then would I flee away, and be at rest.7. LoVer. 9. Destroy, O LORD, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.1Ver. 12. For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it; neither was it he tVer. 15. Let death seise upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickednesse is in theiVer. 16. As for me, I will call upon God: and the Lord shall save me.17. Evening and morning, and atVer. 18. He hath delivered my soule in peace from the battel that was against me: for there were manVer. 19. God shall heare and afflict them, even he that abideth of old▪ Selah: because they have no Ver. 22. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteo
    _ PSAL. LVI. To the 〈◊◊◊◊◊〉, •…im, 〈◊〉 of David, when the 〈◊◊〉 him in G•…
Ver. 1. BE merciful unto me, O God, for man would swallow me up, he fighting daily oppresseth me.2. Ver. 3. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.4. In God I will praise his word, in God I have Ver. 5. Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.6. They gather theVer. 7. Shall they escape by iniqui•…y? in thine anger cast down the people, O God?The second victorVer. 8. Thou tellest my wanderings, put thou my teares into thy •…ottle: are they not in thy book?ThVer. 9. Wh•… I •…ry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know, for God is for me
10.Ver. 12. Thy vowes are upon me, O God: I will render praise unto thee.13. For th•… hast delivered m•
    _ PSAL. LVII. To the chief Musician Al-taschith, Michtam of David, when he fled from Saul in the •…ve.
Ver. 1. BE merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the sver. 2. I will cry unto God most High: unto God that performeth all things for me.From the second arVer. 3. He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. SeVer. 4. My soul is among lions, and I li•… even among them that are set on fire: even the sons of meVer. 5. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth.From the fifVer. 6. They have prepared a net for my steps, my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before Ver. 7. My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed, I will sing and give praise,In the rest of the Ver. 8. Awake up, my glory: awake, psaltery and harp; I my self will awake early.From the third partVer. 9. I will praise thee, O LORD, among the People; I will sing unto thee among the nations.From tVer. 10. For thy mercy is great unto the Heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.11. Be thou exalted,
    _ PSAL. LVIII. To the chief Musician Al-•…, Michtam of David.
Ver. 1. DO ye indeed speak righteousnesse, O Congregation? do ye judge uprightly, Oye sonnes of men.Ver. 6. Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O LOVer. 9. Before your pots can feele the thornes, he shall take them away as with a whirlwinde, both l
    _ PSAL. LIX. 〈◊〉 the chief Musi•…n Al 〈◊〉, 〈◊〉 of David: when Saul sent, and 〈◊〉 watch't the house to kill him.
Ver. 1. DEliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against. me.2. DeliVer. 3. For •…o, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me, not for my transgVer. 5. Thou therefore, O LORD God of hostes, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be Ver. 8. But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them: thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.9. BecausVer. 11. Slay them not, lest my people forget: Scatter them by thy power, and bring them down, O LorVer. 16. But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning; for thou 
    _ PSAL. LX. To the chief Musician upon Shushan-Eduth Michtam of David, to teach. When he strove with Aram Naharaim, and with Aram Zobah, when Ioab returned, and smote of Edom in the valley of salt, twelve thousand
Ver. 1. O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased, O turne thyVer. 2. Thou hast made the earth to tremble, thou hast broken it: heale the breaches thereof, for itVer. 4. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee: that it may be displayed, because of the trVer. 6. God hath spoken in his holinesse, I will rejoyce: I will divide Shechem, and mete out the vaVer. 8. Moab is my Washpot, over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia triumph thou because of me.Ver. 11. Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.12. Through God we shall do valiantl
    _ PSAL. LXI. To the chief Musician upon Neginah, A Psalm of Devid.
Ver. 1. HEar my cry, O God: attend unto my prayer.2. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee,Ver. 4. I will abide in thy Tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah.5. FVer. 6. Thou wilt prolong the Kingslife: and his •…ares as many generations.7. He shall abide before
    _ PSAL. LXII. To the chief Musician, to Ieduthun. A Psalm of David.
Ver. 1. TRuly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.2. He on'y is my rock and my saVer. 3. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wVer. 5. My soul, wait thou onely upon God: for my expectation is from him6. He onely is my rock and Ver. 8. Trust in him at all times, ye people, poure out your heart before him: God is a refuge for uVer. 10. Trust not in oppression, become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart
    _ PSAL. LXIII. A Psalme of David, when he was in the wildernesse of Iudah.
Ver. 1. O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee: my soule thirsteth for thee, my flesh longetVer. 3. Because thy loving kindnesse is better the•… life: my li•…s shall •…raise thee.
4. Thus willVer. 8. My soule followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.
From the second fruit of th9. But those that seek my soul to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.10. They sh11. But the King shall rejoyce in God: every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of 
    _ PSAL. LXIV. To the chief Musician. A Psalme of David.
Ver. 1. Heare my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from feare of the enemy.2. Hide me froVer. 3. Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bowes to shoot their arrowes, even bitterVer. 7. But God shall shoot at them: with an arrow suddenly shall they be wounded.8. So they shall m
    _ PSAL. LXV. To the chief Musician. A Psalme and Song of David.
Ver. 1. PRaise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.From the PVer. 2. O thou that hearest prayer! unto thee shall all flesh come.From the first reason of the LordVer. 3. Iniquities prevaile against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.From tVer. 4. Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell Ver. 5. By terrible things in righteousnesse wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation, who art thVer. 6. Which by his strength setteth fast the mountaines, being girded with power.The fifth reason Ver. 8. Which stillest the noise of the seas: the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the peopleVer. 8. They also that dwell in the uttermost parts,

are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgVer. 9. Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God wh
    _ PSAL. LVI. To the chief Musician, A song or Psalme.
Ver. 1. MAke a joyful noise unto God, all yee lands.2. Sing forth the honour of his Name: make his pVer. 3. Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works? through the greatnesse of thy power shall Ver. 5. Come let us see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.6. ver. 8. O blesse our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard.9. Which holdeth oVer. 13. I will go into thy house with burnt-offerings: I will pay thee my vowe•….14. Whichmy lips hVer. 16. Come and hear all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soule.
17. Ver. 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart: the Lord will not hear me.19. But verily God hath heard mVer. 20. Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.Her closeth wit
    _ PSAL. LXVII. To the chief Mufician on Neginoth. A Ps•…lm or song.
Ver. 1. GOD be merciful unto us, and blesse u•…and cause his face to shine upon us. Sela•…
2. That tVer. 3. Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.4. O let the nations be glVer. 5. Let the people praise thee, O God, let a•… the people praise thee.6. Then shall the earth yi
    _ PSAL. LXVIII. To the chief Musician. A Psalm or song of David.
Ver. 1. LEt God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him, flee before him.2.Ver. 4. Sing unto God, sing praises to his Name: extoll him that rideth upon the heavens, by his NamVer. 5. A Father of the fatherlesse, and a Iudge of the widowes is God in his holy habitation.6. GodVer. 7. O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou diddest march through the wilderVer. 9. Thou. O God, didst send a plentiful raine, whereby thou didst confirme thine inheritance, whVer. 11. Th•… Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.12. Kings of armiVer. 13. Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a Dove, covered with siVer. 15. The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan, an high hill as the hill of Bashan.16. Why leap yVer. 17. •…he chariots of God are twenty thousand, even th•…usands of Angels: the Lord is among themVer. 19. Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. SelVer. 21. But God will wound the head of his enemies: and the hairy scalp of such a one as goeth on sVer. 22. The Lord said, I will bring again fro•… Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depthVer. 24. They have 〈◊〉 thy goings. O God, even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.25. TVer. 26. Blesse ye God in the Congregations: even the Lord from the fountain of Israel.27. There is Ver. 28. Thy God hath commanded thy strength: •…rengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for usVer. 30. Rebuke the company of spearmen, the •…ltitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, Ver. 32. Sing unto God, ye kingdomes of the earth: O sing praises unto the Lord. Selah.33. To him th
    _ PSAL. LXIX To the chief musician upon Shoshannim. A Psalm of David.
Ver. 1. SAve me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.2. I sink in deep mire, where there Ver. 3. I am weary of my crying, my throat is dried: mine eyes faile while I wait for my God.The secVer. 4. They that hate me without a cause, are moe

then the haires of my head: they that would destVer. 5. O God, thou knowest my foolishnesse, and my sins are not hid from thee.The fourth reason of Ver. 6. Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hostes, be ashamed for my sake: let not those Ver. 7. Because for thy sake I have borne reproach: shame hath covered my face.The first reason of tVer. 8. I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an al•…n unto my mothers children.The second reVer. 9. For the zeale of thine house hath eaten me up: and the reproaches of them that reproached thVer. 10. When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.11. I made sackcloVer. 13. But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multituVer. 14. Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate meVer. 16. Hear me, O LORD, for thy loving kindnesse is good: turne unto me according to the multitudeVer. 18. Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeeme it: deliver me because of mine enemies.19. Thou hast knVer. 22. Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfaVer. 26. For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten, and they talk to the grief of those whom thoVer. 27. Adde iniquity unto their iniquity, and let them not come into thy righteousnesse.28. Let thVer. 29. But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation (O God) set me up on high.The third and lastVer. 30. I will praise the Name of God with a song, and will magnifie him with thanksgiving31. This Ver. 32. The humble shall see this and be glad: and your hearts shall live that seek God.33. For theVer. 34. Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.35. For 
    _ PSAL. LXX. To the chief Musician. A Psalme of David, to bring to remembrance.
Ver. 1. MAke haste, O God, to deliver me: make haste, to helpe me, O LORD.From the first petition; LVer. 2. Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soule: let them be turned backward, anVer. 4. Let all those that seek thee, rejoyce and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvatioVer. 5. But I am poor and needy, make haste unto me, O God: Thou art my help and my deliverer, O LOR
    _ PSAL. LXXI.
Ver. 1. IN thee, O LORD, do I put my trust, let me never be put to confusion.The first petition is gVer. 2. Deliver me in thy righteousnesse, and cause me to escape: incline thine eare unto me and savVer. 3. Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandmenVer. 4. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and Ver. 7. I am as a wonder unto many, but thou art my strong refuge.8. Let my mouth he filled with thyVer. 9. Cast me not off in the time of old age, forsake me not when my strength faileth:10. For mineVer. 12. O God, be not farre from me: O my God, make haste for my help.
13. Let them be confounded aVer. 14. But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.15. My mouth shall shewVe•…. 17. O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wonderou•… workVer. 19. Thy righteousnesse also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is likVer. 22. I will also praise thee with the Psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing 
    _ PSAL. LXXII. A Psalm for Solomon.
Ver. 1. GIve the king thy judgements, O God, and thy righteousnesse unto the kings son.From the prayVer. 2. He shall judge thy people with righteousnesse, and thy poor with judgement.3. The mountainesVer. 18. Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doth wonderous things.19. And blessed Ver. 20. The prayers of David the sonne of Iesse, are ended.This clos•…e of the Psalm is added by th
    _ PSAL. LXXIII. A Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. TRuly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.The doctrine set down in tVer. But at as for me, my feet were almost gone: my steps had well nigh slipt.3. For I was envious aVer. 4. For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firme.5. They are not in troublVer. 11. And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?
12. Behold, theseVer. 13. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.14. For all the dVer. 15. If I say, I will speak thus: behold, I should offend against the generation of thy childrenVer. 16. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me.17. Until I went into the Sanctuary Ver. 21. Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reines.22. So foolish was I and ignorantVer. 23. Neverthelesse, I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.
The secondVer. 24. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.The third use is thVer. 25. Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee.26.Ver. 27. For lo, they that are farre from thee, shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go aVer. 28. But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may 
    _ PSAL. LXXIV. Maschil of Asaph.
Ver. 1. O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoak against the sheep of tVer. 3. Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations: even all that the enemy hath done wickedly Ver. 10. O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy Name for ever?1Ver. 12. For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.13. Thou didst dividVer. 18. Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O Lord, and that the foolish people have bla
    _ PSAL. LXXV. To the chief Musician Al-taschith. A Psalme or Song of Asaph.
Ver. 1. VNto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks; for that thy Name is neareVer. 2. When I shall receive the congregation, I will judge uprightly.3. The earth, and all the inhaVer. 4. I said unto the fooles, Deal not foolishly and to the wicked, Lift not up the horne.5. Lift Ver. 6. For promotion cometh neither from the East, nor from the West, nor from the South.7. But GodVer. 8. For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup, and the wine is red: it is full of mixture, and Ver. 9. But I will declare for ever, I will sing praises to the God of Iacob.10. All the hornes of t
    _ PSAL. LXXVI. To the chief Musician on Neginoth. A Psalme or Song of Asaph.
Ver. 1. IN Iudah God is known: his Na•… great in Israel.2. In Salem also is his Tabernacle: and his Ver. 3. There brake he the arrowes of the bow•…, the shield, and the sword, and the battel. Selah.ThVer. 4. Thou art more glorious and excellent th•… the mountains of prey.The second reason of Gods prVer. 5. The stout-hearted are spoiled, they have 〈◊〉 their sleep, and none of the men of might have Ver. 7. Thou▪even thou art to be seared; and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry?TheVer. 8. Thou didst cause judgement to be heard from heaven: the earth feared and was still,9. When GVer. 10. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee, the remainder of wrath shalt thou restraine.The Ver. 11. Vow and pay unto the LORD your God, let all that be round about him bring presents unto him
    _ PSAL. LXXVII. To the chief Musician, to Ieduthun. A Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. I Cried unto God with my voice: even unto God with my voice, and he gave eare unto me.In thiVer. 2. In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my souVer. 5. I have considered the dayes of old, the yeers of ancient times.6. I call to remembrance my sVer. 10. And I said, This is mine infirmity: but I will remember the yeers of the right hand of the Ver. 13. Thy way, O God, is in thy sanctuary: who is so great a God at our God?14. Thou art the God Ver. 15. Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sonnes of Iacob and Ioseph. Selah.16. Thever. 19. Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters: and thy footsteps are not known.20
    _ PSAL. LXXVIII. Maschil of Asaph.
Ver. 1. GIve eare, O my people, to my Law; incline your eares to the words of my mouth.2. I will opeVer. 5. For he established a Testimony in Iacob, and appointed a Law in Israel, which he commanded oVer. 9. The children of Ephraim being armed, and carrying bowes, turned back in the day of battel.10Ver. 12. Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers: in the land of Egypt, in the field Ver. 17. And they sinned yet more against him: by provoking the most High in the wildernesse.18. AndVer. 21. Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Iacob, and angeVer. 26. He caused an East-win•… to blow i•…〈◊〉 heaven, and by his power he brought in the So•… windVer. 30. They were not estranged from their lust•… but while their meat was yet in their mouthes,
31Ver. 34. When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned, and enquired early after God.35Ver. 38. But he being full of compassion for gave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea many aVer. 42. They remembred not his hand: nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.43. How he hVer. 4. And had turned their rivers into blood: and their floods that they could not drinke.45. He sVer. 52. But made his owne people to go forth like sheep: and guided them in the wildernesse like a Ver. 54. And he brought them to the border of his Sanctuary, even to this mountain which his right hVer. 56. Yet they tempted •…d provoked the 〈◊〉 High God, and kept not his testi•…onies▪57. But turneVer. 59. When God heard this, he was wrath, and greatly a•…horred Israel.60. So that he forsook the Ver. 65. Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep: and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of Ver. 67. Moreover, he refused the Tabernacle of Ioseph: and chose not the tribe of Ephraim.
68. But 
    _ PSAL. LXXIX. A Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. O God the heathen are come into thine inheritance, thy holy people have they defiled, they hVer. 2. The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowles of the heaven: thVer. 4. We are become a reproach to our neighbours: a scorne and derision to them that are round aboVer. 5. How long, LORD, wilt thou be 〈◊〉 gry, for ever? shall thy jealousie burne like fire?
From thVer. 6. Poure cut thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdomes that hVer. 8. O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: forVer. 12. And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosome, their reproach where with they 
    _ PSAL. LXXX. To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim Eduth. A Psalm of Asaph.
Ver. 1. Glve eare, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Ioseph like a flock, thou that dwellest bVer. 2. Before Ephraim, and Benjamin, and Manasseh, stirre up thy strength, and come and save us.ForVer. 3. Turn us again, O God: and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.This is the specialVer. 4. O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people:5. Thou feVer. 8. Thou hast brought a Vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.9. ThoVer. 12. Why hast thou then broken down her hedges: so that all they which passe by the way do pluckVer. 14. Return we beseech thee, O God of hostes: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this Ver. 17. Let thy band be upon the man of thy right hand: upon the Sonne of man, whom thou madest str
    _ PSAL. LXXXI. To the chief Musician upon Gittith. A Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. SIng aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Iacob.2. Take a Psalm,Ver. 4. For this was a statute for Israel: and a law of the God of Iacob.5. This he ordained in IoseVer. 6 I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.7. Thou calledVer. 8. Heare, O my people, and I will testifie unto thee; O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me.9.Ver. 11. But my people would not hearken to my voice, and Israel would none of me.
In the third partVer. 12. So I gave them up unto their own hearts lust: and they walked in their own counsels.Here isVer. 13. O that my people had hearkened unto me: and Israel had walked in my wayes!
Last of all, is Ver. 14. I should soon have •…bdued their enemie•… and turned my hand against their adversaries.15. 
    _ PSAL. LXXXII. A Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. GOd standeth in the congregation of the mighty: he judgeth among the gods.From the Lords preVer. 2. How long will ye judge unjustly: and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.From the Lords Ver. 3. Defend the poor and fatherlesse: do justice to the afflicted and needy.4. Deliver the poor aVer. 5. They know not, neither will they understand, they walke on in darknesse: all the foundatio•…Ver. 6. I have said, Ye are gods: and all of you are children of the most High.7. But ye shall die lVer. 8. Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou •…lt inhert all nations.From the close of the Psalme
    _ PSAL. LXXXIII. A song or Psalme of Asaph.
Ver. 1. KEep not thou silence, O, God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.From his cry to GVer. 2. For lo thine enemies make a tumult, and they that hate thee, have lift up the head.3. They hVer. 4. They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation: that the name of Israel mVer. 6. The tabernacles of Edom and the Ishmaelites, of Moab, and the Hagarens.7. Gebal and Ammon anVer. 9. Do unto them as unto the Midianites: as to Sisera, as to Iabin at the brook of Kishon.10. WhVer. 13. O my God, make them like a wheel: as the stubble before the winde.14. As the fire burneth aVer. 18. That men may know, that thou, whose Name alone is IEHOVAH, art the most High over all the e
    _ PSAL. LXXXIV. To the chief Musician upon Gittith. A Psalme for the sonnes of Korah.
Ver. 1. HOW amiable are thy tabernables, O LORD of hostes!The Psalmist being now in exile, casteth hVer. 2. My soule longeth, yea even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh criethVer. 3. Yea the sparrow hath found an house, 〈◊〉 the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay 〈Ver. 4. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house they will be still praising thee. Selah.In the fourVer. 5. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee: in whose heart are the wayes of them.
6. Who pVer. 8. O Lord God of hostes, hear my prayer: give •…are, O God of Iacob. Selah.9. Behold, O God, ouVer. 10. For a day in thy courts is better then a thousand: I had rather be a door-keeper in the hou11. For the LORD God is a sunne and shield: the LORD will give grace and glory; no good thing will bVer. 12. O LORD of hostes: blessed is the man that trusteth in theeWhen the Psalmist hath lamented h
    _ PSAL. LXXXV. To the chief Musician. A Psalme for the sonnes of Korah.
Ver. 1. LORD, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of IacobVer. 4. Turn us, O God of our salvation: and cause thine anger towards us to cease.
5. Wilt thou be Ver. 6. Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoyce in thee?7. Shew us thy mercy, O LVer. 8. I will heare what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to hVer. 9. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.The secondVer. 10. Mercy and truth are met together: righteousnesse and peace have kissed each other.11. TruthVer. 12. Yea, the LORD shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase.The fourVer. 13. Righteousnesse shall go before him: and set us in the way of his steps.The fifth fruit of m
    _ PSAL. LXXXVI. A Prayer of David.
Ver. 1. BOw down thine eare, O LORD, heare me: for I am poore and needy.The first Petition is for auVer. 2. Preserve my soul, for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.The sVer. 3 Be mercifull unto me, O Lord; for I cry unto thee daily.The third Petition is for mercy and fVer. 4. Rejoyce the soule of thy servant: for unto thee (O Lord) do I lift up my soule.5. For thou, Ver. 6. Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer, and attend unto the voice of my supplications.7. In the daVer. 11. Teach me thy way, O LORD, I 〈◊〉 walk in thy truth: unite my heart to feare thy N•….The sixtVer. 12. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorifie thy Name for everVer. 14. O God, the proud are risen against 〈◊〉 and the assemblies of violent men have sought af•… mVer. 16. O turne unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant: and save the s
    _ PSAL. LXXXVII. A Psalme or song for the sonnes of Korah.
Ver. 1. HIs foundation is in the holy mountaines.The first comfort of the afflicted Jewes, troubled Ver. 2. The LORD loveth the gates of Sion: more then all the dwellings of Iacob.The second comfort iVer. 3. Glorious things are spoken of thee, O City of God. Selah.The third comfort is, from the propVer. 4. I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon, to them that know me: Behold, Philistia and Tyre, Ver. 6. The LORD shall count when he writeth up the people: that this man was borne there. Selah.TheVer. 7. As well the singers as the players on

instruments shall be there: all my springs are〈◊〉 the
    _ PSAL. LXXXVIII. A Song or Psalme for the sonnes of Korah. To the chief Musician upon Mahalath Leannoth, Maschil of Heman the Ezrahite.
Ver. 1. O LORD God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee.2. Let my prayer come befVer. 3. For my soule is full of troubles, and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.In the second placVer. 4. I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength.The thVer. 5. Free among the dead, like the slaine that lie in the grave, whom thou remembrest no more: anVer. 6. Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit: in darknesse, in the deepes.The seventh degree of his tVer. 7. Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah.The eightVer. 8. Thou hast put away mine acquaintance farre from me: thou hast made me an abomination unto thVer. 9. Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction, LORD, I have called daily upon thee: I have stretVer. 10. Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the deadrise and praise thee? Selah.11. Shall thyVer. 13. But unto thee have I cried, O LORD: and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.The thiVer. 14. LORD, why castest thou off my soule? why hidest thou thy face from me?The fourth reason is,Ver. 15. I am afflicted and ready to die, from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distractVer. 16. Thy fierce wrath goeth over me: thy terrors havo cut me off.17. They came round about me daVer. 18. Lover and friend hast thou put farre from me: and mine acquaintance into darknesse.The thir
    _ PSAL. LXXXIX. Maschil of Ethan the Ezr•…ite.
Ver. 1. I Will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfuVer. 2. For I have said▪ Mercy shall be built up for •…ver: thy faithfulnesse shalt thou establish iVer. 3. I have made a covenant with my chosen: I have sworne unto David my servant.4. Thy seed will Ver. 5. And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulnesse also in the congregationVer. 6. For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who amongst the sonnes of the mighty caVer. 7. God is greatly to bee feared in the assembly of the Saints: and to bee had in reverence of aVer. 8. O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulnesse round abouVer. 9. Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.A fifth Ver. 10. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slaine: thou hast scattered thine enemies Ver. 11. The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulnesse thereof, Ver. 13. Thou hast a mighty arme: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.The eight reason isVer. 14. Iustice and judgement are the habitation of thy throne; mercy and truth shall go before thyVer. 15. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of Ver. 19, Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy One: and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is Ver. 21. With Whom my hand shall be established: mine arme also shall strengthen him.From this ver. Ver. 22. The enemy shall not exact upon him: nor the sonne of wickednesse afflict me.The second promVer. 23. And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.The third promVer. 24. But my faithfulnesse and my mercy shall be with him: and in my Name shall his horne be exalVer. 25. I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.The fifth promise mad26. He shall cry unto me, Thou art my Father: my God, and the rock of my salvation.The sixth promiseVer. 27. Also I will make him my first-borne, higher then the Kings of the earth.The seventh promiseVer. 28. My mercy will I keep for him for evermore: and my covenant shall stand fact with him.The eiVer. 29. His seed also will I make to endure for ever: and his throne as the dayes of Heaven.The ninVer. 30. If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgements:31. If they break my statutesVer. 34. My covenant will I not break: nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.35. Once haveVer. 38. But thou hast cast off and abhorred: thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.In the third Ver. 46. How long, LORD, wilt thou hide thy self, for ever? shall thy wrath burne like fire?47. Reme
    _ PSAL. XC. A Prayer of Moses the man of God.
Ver. 1. LOrd, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.The first comfort of the Lords peVer. 2. Before the mountaines were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world:Ver. Thou turnest man to destruction: and sayest, Returne, ye children of men.A third comfort, is frVer. 4. For a thousand yeares in thy sight, are but as yesterday, when it is past: and as a watch inVer. 5. Thou carriest them away as with a flood, they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like gVer. 7. For we are consumed by thine anger: and

by thy wrath are we troubled.8. Thou hast set our iVer. 11. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy feare, so is thy wrath.In the cVer. 12. So teach us to number our dayes: that we may apply our heartt unto wisdome.In the third parVer. 13. Return (O LORD) how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.The second PetitioVer. 14. O sati fie us early with thy mercy, that we may rejoyce, and be glad in our dayes.15. Make Ver. 16. Let thy work appear unto thy servants: and thy glory unto their children.The fourth PetitioVer. 17. And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands
    _ PSAL. XCI.
Ver. 1. HE that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High, shall abide under the shadow of the AVer. 2. I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge, and my fortresse, my God, in him will I trust.The sVer. 3. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler: and from the noisome pestilence.TVer. 4. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shallVer. 5. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night: nor for the arrow that fleeth by day:6. NoVer. 8. Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold, and see the reward of the wicked.He answereth an objVer. 9. Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation:10. Ver. 11. For he shall give his Angels charge over thee: to keep thee in all thy wayes.12. They shallVer. 13. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample Ver. 14. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high,
    _ PSAL. XCII. A Psalme or Song for the Sabbath-day.
Ver. 1. IT is a good thing to give thanks unto the LORD: and to sing praises unto thy Name, O most HVer. 4. For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy handsVer. 6. A brutish man knoweth not: neither doth a foole understand this.7. When the wicked spring asVer. 10. But my horne shalt thou exalt like the horne of an unicorne: I shall be anointed with freshVer. 12. The righteous shall flourish like the Palmtree: he shall grow like a Cedar in Lebanon.13. T
    _ PSAL. XCIII.
Ver. 1. THE LORD reigneth, he is clothed with Majestie: the LORD is clothed with strength, wherewithVer. 3. The floods have lifted up, O LORD: the floods have lifted up their voice: the floods lift upVer. 4. The LORD on high is mightier then the noise of many waters: yea then the mighty waves of theVer. 5. Thy Testim•nies are very sure: holinesse becometh thine house, O LORD, for ever.The uses of 
    _ PSAL. XCIV.
Ver. 1. O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongeth: O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thy self.2Ver. 8 LORD, how long shall the wicked? how long shall the wicked triumph?4. How long shall they uttVer. 5. They break in pieces thy people, O LORD: and afflict thine heritage.6. They slay the widow aVer. 8. Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fooles, when will ye be wise?9. He that planVer. 12. Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD: and teachest him out of thy law:13. That tVer. 14. For the LORD will not cast off his people: neither will he forsake his inheritance.15. But Ver. 16. Who will rise up for me against the evill doers? or who will stand up for me against the woVer. 17. Unlesse the LORD had been my help: my soule had almost dwelt in silence.He sheweth what sucVer. 18. When I said, My foot slippeth: thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.He sheweth how he received helVer. 19. In the multitude of my thoughts: within me thy comforts delight my soule.He setteth down heVer. 20. Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee: which frameth mischief by a law?21.Ver. 22. But the LORD is my defence: and God is the rock of my refuge.23. And he shall bring upon th
    _ PSAL. XCV.
Ver. 1. O Come let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyfull noise to the Rock of our salvation.2Ver. 3. For the LORD is a great God: and a great King above all gods.Another reason of praising ChriVer. 4. In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.A third Ver. 5. The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.6. O come, let us worship Ver, 7. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand: to day iVer. 8. Harden not your heart, as in the provocation: and as in the day of temptation in the wildernVer. 11. Unto whom I sware in my wrath: that they should not enter into my rest.To enforce the exhor
    _ PSAL. XCVI.
Ver. 1. O Sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD all the earth.2. Sing unto the LORD, bleVer. 4. For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.5. For aVer. 7. Give unto the LORD, (O ye kindreds of the people,) give unto the LORD glory and strength.HerVer. 8. Give unto the LORD the glory due unto
his Name, bring an offering, and come into hi•… courtsVer. 9. O worship the LORD in the beauty of holinesse: feare before him all the earth.In the third bVer. 10. Say among the heathen that the LORD reig•…th: the world also shall be established, that it 
    _ PSAL. XCVII.
Ver. 1. THe LORD reigneth, let the earth rejoyce: let the multitudes of Isles be glad thereof.2. CloVer. 3. A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.4. His lightnings inlighteneVer. 7. Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship himVer. 8. Sion heard, and was glad: and the daughters of Iudah rejoyced, because of thy judgement•…, OVer. 10. Ye that love the LORD, hate evil; he preserveth the souls of his Saints: he delivereth themVer. 12. Rejoyce in the LORD, ye righteous: and give thanks at the remembrance of his holinesse.The 
    _ PSAL. XCVIII.
Ver. 1. OSing unto the LORD a new song, for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand and his hVer. 4. Make a joyful noise unto the LORD all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoyce, and sing prVer. 7. Let the sea roare, and the fulnesse thereof: the world, and they that dwell therein.8. Let tVer. 9. Before the LORD, for he cometh to judge the earth: With righteousnesse shall he judge the wo
    _ PSAL. XCIX.
Ver. 1. THe LORD reigneth, let the people tremble: he sitteth between the Cherubims, let the earth bVer. 3. Let them praise thy great and terrible Name, for it is holy.4. The Kings strength also lovetVer. 5. Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool: for he is holy.A third exhortation,Ver. 6. Moses and Aaron among his Priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his Name: they calleVer. 8. Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookeVer. 9. Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill: for the LORD our God is holy.The fourt
    _ PSAL. C. A Psalme of praise.
Ver. 1. MAke a joyfull noise unto the LORD, all ye lands.2. Serve the LORD with gladnesse: come befoVer. 3. Know ye that the LORD he is God, it is he that hath made us, and not we our selves: we are hVer. 2. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and in into his cours•… with with praise: be thankefVer. 5. For the LORD is good, his mercy is everlasting: and his truth endureth to all generations.Fr
**Types of content**

  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 2266 **ommitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (2266) : illegible (2220), illegible: blotted (12), illegible: missing (7), illegible: faint (27)  •  @__resp__ (2220) : #APEX (2220)  •  @__extent__ (2266) : 1+ letters (1863), 1 letter (10), 1 word (358), 2 words (28), 3 words (4), 5 words (1), 7 words (1), 1 line (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|òç|242 231|
|Combining             Diacritical Marks|̄|772|
|General Punctuation|•…—|8226 8230 8212|
|Geometric Shapes|◊▪|9674 9642|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|2||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__change__|5||
|5.|__date__|8| @__when__ (1) : 2004-05 (1)|
|6.|__edition__|1||
|7.|__editionStmt__|1||
|8.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|9.|__extent__|2||
|10.|__idno__|6| @__type__ (6) : DLPS (1), STC (2), EEBO-CITATION (1), OCLC (1), VID (1)|
|11.|__keywords__|1| @__scheme__ (1) : http://authorities.loc.gov/ (1)|
|12.|__label__|5||
|13.|__langUsage__|1||
|14.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|15.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|16.|__note__|4||
|17.|__notesStmt__|2||
|18.|__p__|11||
|19.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|20.|__projectDesc__|1||
|21.|__pubPlace__|2||
|22.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|23.|__publisher__|2||
|24.|__ref__|2| @__target__ (2) : https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ (1), http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|25.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|26.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|27.|__term__|1||
|28.|__textClass__|1||
|29.|__title__|3||
|30.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__bibl__|1||
|2.|__closer__|4||
|3.|__desc__|2266||
|4.|__div__|452| @__type__ (452) : title_page (1), dedication (1), to_the_reader (1), errata (1), text (1), Psalm (50), section (397)  •  @__n__ (50) : 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 84 (1), 85 (1), 86 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1)|
|5.|__g__|2677| @__ref__ (2677) : char:EOLhyphen (2584), char:punc (92), char:cmbAbbrStroke (1)|
|6.|__gap__|2266| @__reason__ (2266) : illegible (2220), illegible: blotted (12), illegible: missing (7), illegible: faint (27)  •  @__resp__ (2220) : #APEX (2220)  •  @__extent__ (2266) : 1+ letters (1863), 1 letter (10), 1 word (358), 2 words (28), 3 words (4), 5 words (1), 7 words (1), 1 line (1)|
|7.|__head__|53||
|8.|__hi__|4844||
|9.|__opener__|2||
|10.|__p__|1352||
|11.|__pb__|408| @__facs__ (408) : tcp:66460:1 (2), tcp:66460:2 (2), tcp:66460:3 (2), tcp:66460:4 (2), tcp:66460:5 (2), tcp:66460:6 (2), tcp:66460:7 (2), tcp:66460:8 (2), tcp:66460:9 (2), tcp:66460:10 (2), tcp:66460:11 (2), tcp:66460:12 (2), tcp:66460:13 (2), tcp:66460:14 (2), tcp:66460:15 (2), tcp:66460:16 (2), tcp:66460:17 (2), tcp:66460:18 (2), tcp:66460:19 (2), tcp:66460:20 (2), tcp:66460:21 (2), tcp:66460:22 (2), tcp:66460:23 (2), tcp:66460:24 (2), tcp:66460:25 (2), tcp:66460:26 (2), tcp:66460:27 (2), tcp:66460:28 (2), tcp:66460:29 (2), tcp:66460:30 (2), tcp:66460:31 (2), tcp:66460:32 (2), tcp:66460:33 (2), tcp:66460:34 (2), tcp:66460:35 (2), tcp:66460:36 (2), tcp:66460:37 (2), tcp:66460:38 (2), tcp:66460:39 (2), tcp:66460:40 (2), tcp:66460:41 (2), tcp:66460:42 (2), tcp:66460:43 (2), tcp:66460:44 (2), tcp:66460:45 (2), tcp:66460:46 (2), tcp:66460:47 (2), tcp:66460:48 (2), tcp:66460:49 (2), tcp:66460:50 (2), tcp:66460:51 (2), tcp:66460:52 (2), tcp:66460:53 (2), tcp:66460:54 (2), tcp:66460:55 (2), tcp:66460:56 (2), tcp:66460:57 (2), tcp:66460:58 (2), tcp:66460:59 (2), tcp:66460:60 (2), tcp:66460:61 (2), tcp:66460:62 (2), tcp:66460:63 (2), tcp:66460:64 (2), tcp:66460:65 (2), tcp:66460:66 (2), tcp:66460:67 (2), tcp:66460:68 (2), tcp:66460:69 (2), tcp:66460:70 (2), tcp:66460:71 (2), tcp:66460:72 (2), tcp:66460:73 (2), tcp:66460:74 (2), tcp:66460:75 (2), tcp:66460:76 (2), tcp:66460:77 (2), tcp:66460:78 (2), tcp:66460:79 (2), tcp:66460:80 (2), tcp:66460:81 (2), tcp:66460:82 (2), tcp:66460:83 (2), tcp:66460:84 (2), tcp:66460:85 (2), tcp:66460:86 (2), tcp:66460:87 (2), tcp:66460:88 (2), tcp:66460:89 (2), tcp:66460:90 (2), tcp:66460:91 (2), tcp:66460:92 (2), tcp:66460:93 (2), tcp:66460:94 (2), tcp:66460:95 (2), tcp:66460:96 (2), tcp:66460:97 (2), tcp:66460:98 (2), tcp:66460:99 (2), tcp:66460:100 (2), tcp:66460:101 (2), tcp:66460:102 (2), tcp:66460:103 (2), tcp:66460:104 (2), tcp:66460:105 (2), tcp:66460:106 (2), tcp:66460:107 (2), tcp:66460:108 (2), tcp:66460:109 (2), tcp:66460:110 (2), tcp:66460:111 (2), tcp:66460:112 (2), tcp:66460:113 (2), tcp:66460:114 (2), tcp:66460:115 (2), tcp:66460:116 (2), tcp:66460:117 (2), tcp:66460:118 (2), tcp:66460:119 (2), tcp:66460:120 (2), tcp:66460:121 (2), tcp:66460:122 (2), tcp:66460:123 (2), tcp:66460:124 (2), tcp:66460:125 (2), tcp:66460:126 (2), tcp:66460:127 (2), tcp:66460:128 (2), tcp:66460:129 (2), tcp:66460:130 (2), tcp:66460:131 (2), tcp:66460:132 (2), tcp:66460:133 (2), tcp:66460:134 (2), tcp:66460:135 (2), tcp:66460:136 (2), tcp:66460:137 (2), tcp:66460:138 (2), tcp:66460:139 (2), tcp:66460:140 (2), tcp:66460:141 (2), tcp:66460:142 (2), tcp:66460:143 (2), tcp:66460:144 (2), tcp:66460:145 (2), tcp:66460:146 (2), tcp:66460:147 (2), tcp:66460:148 (2), tcp:66460:149 (2), tcp:66460:150 (2), tcp:66460:151 (2), tcp:66460:152 (2), tcp:66460:153 (2), tcp:66460:154 (2), tcp:66460:155 (2), tcp:66460:156 (2), tcp:66460:157 (2), tcp:66460:158 (2), tcp:66460:159 (2), tcp:66460:160 (2), tcp:66460:161 (2), tcp:66460:162 (2), tcp:66460:163 (2), tcp:66460:164 (2), tcp:66460:165 (2), tcp:66460:166 (2), tcp:66460:167 (2), tcp:66460:168 (2), tcp:66460:169 (2), tcp:66460:170 (2), tcp:66460:171 (2), tcp:66460:172 (2), tcp:66460:173 (2), tcp:66460:174 (2), tcp:66460:175 (2), tcp:66460:176 (2), tcp:66460:177 (2), tcp:66460:178 (2), tcp:66460:179 (2), tcp:66460:180 (2), tcp:66460:181 (2), tcp:66460:182 (2), tcp:66460:183 (2), tcp:66460:184 (2), tcp:66460:185 (2), tcp:66460:186 (2), tcp:66460:187 (2), tcp:66460:188 (2), tcp:66460:189 (2), tcp:66460:190 (2), tcp:66460:191 (2), tcp:66460:192 (2), tcp:66460:193 (2), tcp:66460:194 (2), tcp:66460:195 (2), tcp:66460:196 (2), tcp:66460:197 (2), tcp:66460:198 (2), tcp:66460:199 (2), tcp:66460:200 (2), tcp:66460:201 (2), tcp:66460:202 (2), tcp:66460:203 (2), tcp:66460:204 (2)  •  @__rendition__ (5) : simple:additions (5)  •  @__n__ (377) : 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 84 (1), 85 (1), 86 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1), 101 (1), 102 (1), 103 (1), 104 (1), 105 (1), 106 (1), 107 (1), 108 (1), 109 (1), 110 (1), 111 (1), 112 (1), 114 (1), 115 (1), 116 (1), 117 (1), 118 (1), 119 (1), 120 (1), 121 (1), 122 (1), 123 (1), 124 (1), 125 (1), 126 (1), 127 (1), 128 (1), 129 (1), 130 (1), 131 (1), 132 (1), 133 (1), 134 (1), 135 (1), 136 (1), 137 (1), 138 (1), 139 (1), 140 (1), 141 (1), 142 (1), 143 (1), 144 (1), 145 (1), 146 (1), 147 (1), 148 (1), 149 (1), 150 (1), 151 (1), 152 (1), 153 (1), 154 (1), 155 (1), 156 (1), 157 (1), 158 (1), 159 (1), 160 (1), 161 (1), 163 (1), 164 (1), 165 (1), 166 (1), 167 (1), 168 (1), 169 (1), 170 (1), 171 (1), 172 (1), 173 (1), 174 (1), 175 (1), 178 (1), 179 (1), 180 (1), 181 (1), 182 (1), 183 (1), 184 (1), 185 (1), 186 (1), 187 (1), 188 (1), 189 (1), 190 (1), 191 (1), 192 (1), 194 (1), 195 (1), 196 (1), 197 (1), 198 (1), 199 (1), 200 (1), 201 (1), 202 (1), 203 (1), 204 (1), 205 (1), 206 (1), 207 (1), 210 (1), 212 (1), 213 (1), 216 (1), 217 (1), 218 (1), 219 (1), 220 (1), 221 (1), 222 (1), 223 (1), 224 (1), 226 (1), 227 (1), 228 (1), 229 (1), 230 (1), 231 (1), 232 (1), 233 (1), 234 (1), 235 (1), 236 (1), 237 (1), 238 (1), 239 (1), 241 (1), 242 (1), 243 (1), 244 (1), 245 (1), 246 (1), 247 (1), 248 (1), 249 (1), 251 (1), 250 (1), 252 (1), 253 (1), 254 (1), 255 (1), 258 (1), 260 (1), 261 (1), 262 (1), 263 (1), 265 (1), 266 (1), 267 (1), 269 (1), 274 (1), 276 (1), 277 (1), 278 (1), 279 (1), 280 (1), 281 (1), 282 (1), 283 (1), 284 (1), 285 (1), 286 (1), 287 (1), 288 (1), 289 (1), 290 (1), 291 (1), 292 (1), 293 (1), 294 (1), 295 (1), 296 (1), 297 (1), 298 (1), 299 (1), 300 (1), 301 (1), 302 (1), 303 (1), 304 (1), 305 (1), 306 (1), 307 (1), 308 (1), 309 (1), 310 (1), 311 (1), 312 (1), 313 (1), 314 (1), 315 (1), 316 (1), 317 (1), 318 (1), 319 (1), 320 (1), 321 (1), 322 (1), 323 (1), 324 (1), 325 (1), 326 (1), 327 (1), 328 (2), 329 (1), 330 (1), 331 (1), 332 (1), 333 (1), 334 (1), 335 (1), 336 (1), 337 (1), 338 (1), 339 (1), 340 (1), 341 (1), 342 (1), 343 (1), 344 (1), 345 (1), 346 (1), 347 (1), 348 (1), 349 (1), 350 (1), 351 (1), 352 (1), 353 (1), 354 (1), 355 (1), 356 (1), 357 (1), 358 (1), 359 (1), 360 (1), 361 (1), 362 (1), 363 (1), 364 (1), 365 (1), 366 (1), 367 (1), 368 (1), 369 (1), 370 (1), 371 (1), 372 (1), 373 (1), 374 (1), 375 (1), 376 (1), 377 (1), 378 (1), 379 (1), 380 (1), 381 (1), 383 (1), 384 (1), 385 (1), 386 (1), 387 (1), 388 (1), 389 (1), 390 (1), 391 (1), 392 (1), 393 (1), 394 (1), 395 (1), 396 (1), 397 (1), 398 (1), 399 (1)|
|12.|__q__|399||
|13.|__salute__|2||
|14.|__seg__|3| @__rend__ (3) : decorInit (3)|
|15.|__signed__|2||
|16.|__trailer__|3||
